if we were the sole users of a computer
and a network then we would probably
grant ourselves unrestricted access to
everything the web has to offer but many
circumstances networks and sometimes
computers are shared by multiple people
and sometimes those people try to go to
places they shouldn't and either ruin
your computer with viruses or ruin their
minds with other things so here I'm
going to show you a few ways to filter
and control what people can and can't
see on your computer network if all you
have is a single computer and you just
use one browser then finding some type
of parental control or URL blocking
plugin for your browser is relatively
easy but what if you want to block
websites for all browsers on your
computer well a good solution for this
comes from a free utility called Open
DNS which is a fast DNS server that can
let you set filters on your Internet
traffic so go to their website and click
on the sign up button for a free version
and create a new account then it'll give
you options for how to set it up on your
computer select which set of steps best
fits your circumstance and then set up
your DNS settings when you're through
click Next at the bottom if everything
worked correctly you should see this
page then click Open DNS dashboard at
the bottom the next page will have you
add your home IP address to their system
so click to add this network button give
it a name and then click done when it's
added just click on the IP address name
to adjust the settings at the top of the
page you can select how secure you want
your filtering level to be and at the
bottom you can add specific websites to
block for instance if you wanted to
block YouTube just type in the YouTube
web address and click Add domain after
about 4 minutes you should see a message
like this every time you try to go to
YouTube now let's say that you want to
control web content for more than just
your computers such as the content for
an entire network the simplest way to do
this is to filter out content as it hits
your router before it's relayed to the
computer
most routers have content controls built
in to check yours type in the routers IP
address into your web browser
most IP addresses are either 192.168.1.1
or 10001 then it should prompt you for a
username of password if you didn't set
up a username and password you can find
the default one for your router at this
website your router will probably look
different than mine but basically you
want to see if it has a content
filtering section if it does you can
probably do things such as block sites
by adding keywords or domains to the
filter or some may even allow you to
block services such as games instant
messengers FTP and things like that
so far we've covered how to block basic
web traffic like websites or services
but what if you want full control over
all web traffic such as blocking certain
downloads viewing how often a website is
visited or blocking websites only
certain hours of the day well if your
router supports it then what you need is
a free program called web Mon found at
the website below click to download the
free trial and then click on download
now after signing up you should see this
page where you want to download the GFI
webmonitor 2009 version upon
installation the defaults will work for
most of the screens you'll need to enter
in your computer admin username and
password however if you don't have a
password that you use to log into
Windows then you'll need to create one
when it's through installing select the
simple proxy mode and click Next on the
next screen copy down your IP address
and your port and then click finish be
sure to read the user documentation
provided to make sure that this works
with your router I'll be using a Linksys
wrt54g
into your router and find the access
restrictions or filtering options you
want to create a new policy that adds
restrictions to your network so click
enable and type in a policy name then
click Edit list of PCs and set the IP
range from 0 to 255 and click Save then
click the deny radio button and click
save again then go to your browser
options and click to edit the network
settings you want to select to create a
manual proxy and then enter in the
information that you copy down from the
installation and click OK and then click
OK in you'll need to do this for every
browser that you want to go through the
filtering process now start up the web
mod and you can start adding sites to
the whitelist to allow access to them
into the blacklist if you want to deny
access if you want to block certain
types of websites you can click on the
web grade database and at the bottom
type in a website and click check URL to
find out what type of website it is then
go to web filtering policies and click
on add policy type in a name and a
description and then you can also select
specific times of the day that you want
this policy to be in effect click on the
web filtering tab and select the
category type that you want to block and
click block then click on the applies to
tab and enter in a user group or IP
address that this rule applies to and
click Save now if you go to any of the
web browsers that you set up and try to
access one of those websites then you
should see a message like this similarly
you can click on the download control
policies and block certain types of
downloads as well there's a lot more
that you can do with this program that's
a lot of fun to mess around with but
it's only really beneficial if you have
your own network and there's more than
one computer on it if you guys know of
any more tips feel free to post them
below be sure to check out tinkernut.com
on Facebook and Twitter all right that's
it for this tutorial for more go to
tinkernut.com